README.md, before:

![sure_lib](https://i.ibb.co/nNdSy1qn/Annotation-2025-09-23-184925.png)

# sure_lib (Modern-First lua of FiveM Scripting)

Open Source - Library that will help your manage your resource or handle your script as a controller

In this version (1.2.1) we are currently working on the new features.

and we don't have official documentation yet. (You can see functions declaration in each files of our resource)

## Core Features
- Cooldown (Make all players in server receive same timer)
- Schema Validation
- ESX-Modern Utility Functions
- Track - Reactive system (RippleJS-like in lua)
- Listener Event (with Parameters Validation)

## Dependencies

- [ox_lib](https://github.com/overextended/ox_lib)
- [es_extended](https://github.com/esx-framework/esx_core)

## Autoloader
Aliases that can be called
- `ESX`
- `Cooldown`
- `Validator`
- `Track`
- `Listener`
```lua
--- fxmanifest.lua
shared_script '@sure_lib/imports/shared.lua'
```

```lua
--- client.lua
local esx = GetModule('ESX')
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')
local validator = GetModule('Validator')
local reactive = GetModule('Track')
local listener = GetModule('Listener')

listener
	:Local('say', function(prefix, suffix)
		print(prefix, suffix)
	end)
	.AddParams(validator.String().Required(), validator.String().Required())

TriggerEvent('say', 'hello', 'world') --- Works
TriggerEvent('say', 1, 2) --- Error!

esx.WaitPlayerLoaded()

print(cooldown.GetCooldown(namespace, coords))
print(validator.String().Parse('hello'))

--- Reactive System
local d, setD = reactive.Track('d', 500)

reactive.Effect(function()
	print('d has updated to', d())
end, { d })

print('Initial d is', d()) --- Initial d is 500
setD(600) --- d has updated to 600
```

## Basic Usage (Cooldown)

```lua
--- server.lua
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')

cooldown.SetupInitialData(
	--[[ namespace ]]                                    'your_namespace_like_robbery',
	--[[ initial cooldown (ms) ]]                        5000,
	--[[ after set or reset cooldown (ms) ]]             10000,
	--[[ stack on zero to reset cooldown (optional) ]]   12
)
```

```lua
--- client.lua
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')
local namespace = 'your_namespace_like_robbery'

cooldown.OnReady(function()
	local coords = vec3(0.0, 0.0, 0.0)

	while true do
		Wait(1000)
		local cooldown = cooldown.GetCooldown(namespace, coords)
		print('Cooldown is', cooldown)

		if cooldown == 0 then
			print('This is a zero then wait 2 seconds to reset cooldown')
			Wait(2000)
			cooldown.SetCooldown(namespace, coords)
		end
	end
end)
```

## Basic Usage (Schema Validation)

```lua
local v = GetModule('Validator')

local testSchema = v.Object({
    second = v.Object({
        third = v.Object({
            fourth = v.String().Required()
        })
    })
})
local testData = {
    second = {
        third = {
            fourth = 'string'
        }
    }
}

local success, message = pcall(function()
    testSchema.Parse(testData)
end)

if success then
    print('Validation successful!')
else
    print('Validation failed:', message)
end
```

Commit message:

docs: add example for Local and Net event

README.md, after:

![sure_lib](https://i.ibb.co/nNdSy1qn/Annotation-2025-09-23-184925.png)

# sure_lib (Modern-First lua of FiveM Scripting)

Open Source - Library that will help your manage your resource or handle your script as a controller

In this version (1.2.1) we are currently working on the new features.

and we don't have official documentation yet. (You can see functions declaration in each files of our resource)

## Core Features
- Cooldown (Make all players in server receive same timer)
- Schema Validation
- ESX-Modern Utility Functions
- Track - Reactive system (RippleJS-like in lua)
- Listener Event (with Parameters Validation)

## Dependencies

- [ox_lib](https://github.com/overextended/ox_lib)
- [es_extended](https://github.com/esx-framework/esx_core)

## Autoloader
Aliases that can be called
- `ESX`
- `Cooldown`
- `Validator`
- `Track`
- `Listener`
```lua
--- fxmanifest.lua
shared_script '@sure_lib/imports/shared.lua'
```

```lua
--- client.lua
local esx = GetModule('ESX')
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')
local validator = GetModule('Validator')
local reactive = GetModule('Track')
local listener = GetModule('Listener')

listener
	--- on local event call `Local`
	--- on net event call   `Net`
	:Local('say', function(prefix, suffix)
		print(prefix, suffix)
	end)
	.AddParams(validator.String().Required(), validator.String().Required())

TriggerEvent('say', 'hello', 'world') --- Works
TriggerEvent('say', 1, 2) --- Error!

esx.WaitPlayerLoaded()

print(cooldown.GetCooldown(namespace, coords))
print(validator.String().Parse('hello'))

--- Reactive System
local d, setD = reactive.Track('d', 500)

reactive.Effect(function()
	print('d has updated to', d())
end, { d })

print('Initial d is', d()) --- Initial d is 500
setD(600) --- d has updated to 600
```

## Basic Usage (Cooldown)

```lua
--- server.lua
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')

cooldown.SetupInitialData(
	--[[ namespace ]]                                    'your_namespace_like_robbery',
	--[[ initial cooldown (ms) ]]                        5000,
	--[[ after set or reset cooldown (ms) ]]             10000,
	--[[ stack on zero to reset cooldown (optional) ]]   12
)
```

```lua
--- client.lua
local cooldown = GetModule('Cooldown')
local namespace = 'your_namespace_like_robbery'

cooldown.OnReady(function()
	local coords = vec3(0.0, 0.0, 0.0)

	while true do
		Wait(1000)
		local cooldown = cooldown.GetCooldown(namespace, coords)
		print('Cooldown is', cooldown)

		if cooldown == 0 then
			print('This is a zero then wait 2 seconds to reset cooldown')
			Wait(2000)
			cooldown.SetCooldown(namespace, coords)
		end
	end
end)
```

## Basic Usage (Schema Validation)

```lua
local v = GetModule('Validator')

local testSchema = v.Object({
    second = v.Object({
        third = v.Object({
            fourth = v.String().Required()
        })
    })
})
local testData = {
    second = {
        third = {
            fourth = 'string'
        }
    }
}

local success, message = pcall(function()
    testSchema.Parse(testData)
end)

if success then
    print('Validation successful!')
else
    print('Validation failed:', message)
end
```
